there's enough damp ground for us even
in the dry season which draws grazers
like these Oryx from all over the desert
[Applause]
and that's why the young lands have been
drawn to this valley it's the very best
place the hunt
however Oryx are large with lethal homes
but they aren't the only potential prey
taking advantage of the watersense
watering hole donkeys are much easier to
catch but killing one could spell
disaster for the Cubs the donkeys belong
to the Himba and Herrero people whose
village poorest lies a few miles upriver
they are worried by the lives return no
one wants a large predator on their
doorstep I had two donkeys two pregnant
donkeys then a lion killed both of them
without my donkeys I can't go and visit
my daughter my grandchildren anymore
raising livestock on such marginal land
is tough the loss of cattle they're only
cash in the bank
could cause financial ruin in the severe
droughts of the 1980s desert landscape
hours so the people shot every land they
could this is how desert lands were
thought to have been wiped out first
time around can the people have put us
afford to be tolerant towards this new
generation the Cubs will be much safer
if they learn to catch wild animals like
Oryx
in the Serengeti youngsters spend years
watching how older lionesses tackle
large prey however it looks as though
these Cubs will have to teach themselves
through trial and error they begin the
stalk like seasoned hunters using the
scant cover to conceal themselves and
they have to be incredibly quiet Oryx
are spooked by the slightest sound
one of the youngsters looks as though
it's made a mistake
it's broken cover actually very cleverly
it's pushing the aurochs towards the
other line an Oryx is quite capable of
seeing off alarm as long as the antelope
sense its ground and doesn't run but
will the Oryx keep its nerve
finally the youngsters lose heart
[Music]